Schema Configuration documentation (#3349)
neo4j/graphql: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/type-definitions/schema-configuration/global-configuration.adoc

[[schema-configuration-global-configuration]]
= Global Configuration

> There are cases when what is wanted is to disable a type of operation for the whole type definitions and not on type by type basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through the schema configuration, it is possible to disable a type of operation for the whole type definitions and not on type by type basis.
```

> Through the schema configuration, it is possible to disable a type of operation for the whole type definitions and not on type by type basis.

Author: Uhm,  I feel that both the initial and the suggested sentences do not give the right idea of what this section is about. What we need to express is that the same directives described in the section `type-configuration.adoc` (apart from the deprecated @exclude), can be used directly at the schema to describe the same behavior described on that page but for the whole type definitions rather than type by type.
Saying  "but not individually" sounds to me like that is not possible to specify this behavior individually, but is exactly what we describe on the page `type-configuration.adoc`! It's more like "the same directives described on `type-configuration.adoc` can be applied to the schema to describe the same behavior but globally", of course with better wording than mine!

Hope it gives you more context!

> Through the schema configuration, it is possible to disable a type of operation for the whole type definitions and not on type by type basis.

Author: Like it!

> For instance, if you want to avoid all the top-level aggregation operations to be generated and avoid redundancy, Neo4j GraphQL Library allows using schema extensions with `@query`, `@mutation`, and `@subscription`:

Author: As the comment above, I express the concept very badly here, the "redundancy" that I'm talking about here is that by applying these directives directly to the schema type we can avoid repeating ourselves as we would have done if we instead followed the instruction on `type-configuration.adoc`

> For instance, if you want to avoid all the top-level aggregation operations to be generated and avoid redundancy, Neo4j GraphQL Library allows using schema extensions with `@query`, `@mutation`, and `@subscription`:

Reviewer: Right! So something like this?

```suggestion
For instance, if you want to disable all top-level aggregation operations at once, Neo4j GraphQL Library offers this option through schema extensions with `@query`, `@mutation`, and `@subscription`:
```

> For instance, if you want to avoid all the top-level aggregation operations to be generated and avoid redundancy, Neo4j GraphQL Library allows using schema extensions with `@query`, `@mutation`, and `@subscription`:

Author: Legend!

> For instance, let's say that we want to avoid all the top-level aggregation operations to be generated. To avoid useless repetition, Neo4j GraphQL Library allows using schema extension with `@query`, `@mutation`, and `@subscription` as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, if you want to avoid all the top-level aggregation operations to be generated and avoid redundancy, Neo4j GraphQL Library allows using schema extensions with `@query`, `@mutation`, and `@subscription`:
```

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Movie { 
    title: String 
    actors: [Actor!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", direction: IN) 
} 

type Actor { 
    name: String 
    movies: [Movie!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", direction: OUT) 
}
extend schema @query(read: true, aggregate: false)
----

> **Query**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Query**
```

    * `movies`
    * [.line-through]#`moviesAggregate`#
    * `moviesConnection`
    * `actors`
    * [.line-through]#`actorsAggregate`#
    * `actorsConnection`

**Invalid schema usage**

> The same schema configuration directive cannot be applied only to both Schema and Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same schema configuration directive cannot be applied to both Schema and Object.
```

> For instance, the following type definitions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take the following type definitions as example:
```

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Movie { 
    title: String 
    actors: [Actor!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", direction: IN) 
} 

type Actor @query(read: false, aggregate: true) { 
    name: String 
    movies: [Movie!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", direction: OUT) 
}
extend schema @query(read: true, aggregate: false)
----

> Will raise the error: `"@query directive already defined at the schema location"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such configuration will prompt the error `"@query directive already defined at the schema location"`.
```

[[schema-configuration-global-configuration]]
= Global Configuration

> Through the schema configuration, it is possible to globally disable specific types of operation.

Reviewer 2: This page makes it seem as though this is only possible to use `@query` in this way. What do you think of this wording?

```suggestion
Through the schema configuration, it is possible to globally disable specific types of operation using the `@query`, `@mutation` and `@subscription` directives.
```

To set up operations individually, refer to xref:/schema-configuration/type-configuration.adoc[Type Configuration].

> For instance, if you want to disable all top-level aggregation operations at once, Neo4j GraphQL Library offers this option through schema extensions with `@query`, `@mutation`, and `@subscription`:

Author: You're right after a couple of rewording stopped to have sense!
